Bookmarks Manager
=================

Date: 2009-05-19

A first design of a bookmark manager.

Architecture:
-------------

Bookmark:

A simple object with 4 attributes: a title, an url, a parent directory and a favicon. (The last two are optional)

BookmarkManager:

Initialized with an optional BDirectory (the default one should be ~/config/settings/bookmarks).

Have 3 main methods,
- AddBookmark : Create a BFile from the attributes of a given Bookmark object and store it in the correct directory.
- GetBookmarkList : Return a BList of Bookmark objects from a given directory. A boolean argument can also be passed to determine whether recursion in sub-folders. This method would be useful to create a bookmark menu or a bookmark bar.
- ManageBookmarks : Open a Tracker window, in the BDirectory for which the BookmarkManager is set, to manage (reorganize, rename, delete) bookmarks.


Ideas:
------

In the present state the Bookmarks Manager doesn't handle the opening of a bookmark. In the case of opening it from the Tracker it's directly managed by Haiku. In the case of opening it from a bookmark menu (or bar) it would be the browser's job, as GetBookmarkList returns a List of Bookmarks. I am not sure it is the best way to do.

-------
There is an existing BUrl class that could be used for the url field of the Bookmark class.
Description from the source code file (/src/kits/support/Url.cpp):
"Url class for parsing an URL and opening it with its preferred handler."
As it was mainly written to manage the url mime type, is it really necessary to use it? (instead of a BString)

-------


How NetPositive bookmarks work:
-------------------------------

NetPositive maintains its bookmarks in a folder (/boot/home/config/settings/NetPositive/Bookmarks) as special bookmark files with a URL, Title and Keyword attribute. The file name is the same as the title, unless there is duplicate bookmarks added in which a number is added to the filename after a space (Google, Google 1, Google 2, etc.) The Keyword attribute does not appear to be used.

Any folders within the bookmark folder are added as a submenu at the bottom of the Bookmark menu, after a menu separator. The same thing is done with folders within subfolders, however deep.

The Bookmarks menu contains an Add to Bookmarks (Alt-B) command which just adds the bookmark to the bottom of the menu (and the folder) without any dialog or confirmation. There is also a Show Bookmarks command which opens a Tracker window to the bookmarks folder. Then there is a menu separator and then the bookmarks (with their titles as the menu item label.)

When NetPositive is started the bookmarks are loaded in alphabetical order by title. This means that new bookmarks that were added in the last session move from the bottom of the menu to their alphabetical position.

If there is no Title attribute set, the folder name and file name are appended to produce the title used in the menu (separated by forward slashes.) For example a bookmark with filename "Google" under subfolders "Internet" and "Search" would appear in a Search menu under the Internet submenu of the Bookmark menu as "Internet/Search/Google".

If there is no Url attribute set, the bookmark is not added to the menu. Also as may be obvious, any files in the bookmark folder that are not bookmarks are ignored.

-------
